Since they were introduced 60 years ago,
antibiotics have been used to treat
disease and infection caused by
the family of germs called bacteria.
However, some bacteria are not killed
by antibiotics because they have mutations
in their DNA, or biological makeup,
that makes antibiotics ineffective.
This drug resistance can be passed
to their offspring into other microbes
by direct transfer of DNA segments
that contains the resistance mutation.
As a result,
some diseases that were once
easy to treat are becoming harder
to treat and more common.
A particular concern
are bacteria resistant to more
than one antibiotic,
known as MDRO’s,
for Multi-Drug Resistant Organisms.
Another concern is the so-called super bugs.
Very common bacteria with
a scientific name of
Staphylococcus aureus,
or more commonly called Staph.
These super bugs are often called MRSA
to indicate resistant
to methicillin antibiotics.
Possible reasons for why
drug resistance develops in bacterial
DNA includes
failure to complete a full
course of antibiotics
so that some bacteria escape
after drug exposure
and inappropriate overuse of antibiotics
for viral infections, like a cold.
While drug companies search
for new drugs to combat
these resistant bacteria,
hospitals and clinics are putting programs
in place to limit their spread.
Some countries have imposed strict
regulations on use of drugs
and agents that kill bacteria
to slow development of
even more resistant strains.